Rewrite Understanding SLSA sections (#705)
slsa-framework/slsa: docs/spec/v1.0/about.md

---
description: An introduction to SLSA
prev_page:
  title: What's new in SLSA v1.0
  url: whats-new
next_page:
  title: Supply-chain threats
  url: threats-overview
---

> # About SLSA

Author: Done

software—a "software bill of materials" (SBOM) that tells users what is in their
software. Building off this analogy, SLSA can be thought of as all the food
safety handling guidelines that make an ingredient list credible. From standards
for clean factory environments so contaminants aren't introduced in packaging
plants, to the requirement for tamper-proof seals on lids that ensure nobody
changes the contents of items sitting on grocery store shelves, the entire food
safety framework ensures that consumers can trust that the ingredient list
matches what's actually in the package they buy.

Likewise, the SLSA framework provides this trust with guidelines and
tamper-resistant evidence for securing each step of the software production
process. That means you know not only that nothing unexpected was added to the
software product, but also that the ingredient label itself wasn't tampered with
and accurately reflects the software contents. In this way, SLSA helps protect
against the risk of:

-   Code modification (by adding a tamper-evident "seal" to code after
    source control)
-   Uploaded artifacts that were not built by the expected CI/CD system (by marking

>     artifacts with a factory "stamp" that verifies which build service created it)

Reviewer: The stamp itself doesn't verify, it makes verification possible, so I think this should read:
```suggestion
    artifacts with a factory "stamp" that attests which build service created it)
```
Or possibly the following but that seems a bit too convoluted for this intro:
```suggestion
    artifacts with a factory "stamp" that provides a verifiable attestation of which build service created it)
```

Author: Since this is the layperson's terms section, would you be open to "shows" rather than 
"attests"? As in: ...a factory "stamp" that shows which build service created it.

Reviewer: yes, that's fine.

Author: Updated, thanks.

-   Threats against the build system (by providing "manufacturing facility"
    best practices for build system services)

For more exploration of this analogy, see the blog post
[SLSA + SBOM: Accelerating SBOM success with the help of SLSA](https://slsa.dev/blog/2022/05/slsa-sbom).

## Who is SLSA for?

In short: everyone involved in producing and consuming software, or providing 
infrastructure for software.

**Software producers**, such as a development team or open
source maintainers. SLSA gives you protection against insider risk and tampering
along the supply chain to your consumers, increasing confidence that the

> software you produce reaches your consumers as you intended it.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
software you produce reaches your consumers as you intended.
```

**Software consumers**, such as a development team using open source packages, a
government agency using vendored software, or a CISO judging organizational
risk. SLSA gives you a way to judge the security practices of the software you
rely on and be sure that what you receive is what you expected.

**Infrastructure providers**, who provide infrastructure such as an ecosystem
package manager, build platform, or CI/CD system. As the bridge between the

> producers and consumers, your adoption of SLSA makes a secure software supply
> chain more frictionless for both of them. 

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
producers and consumers, your adoption of SLSA makes a secure software supply
chain between them more frictionless. 
```
or maybe simply:
```suggestion
producers and consumers, your adoption of SLSA enables a secure software supply
chain between them. 
```

## How SLSA works

We talk about SLSA in terms of [tracks and levels](levels.md).
A SLSA track focuses on a particular aspect of a supply chain, such as the Build
Track. SLSA v1.0 consists of only a single track (Build), but future versions of

> SLSA will add tracks that cover other parts of the software supply chain.

Reviewer: Should we hint on what those tracks might cover by adding something like "such as how source is managed" or maybe simply pointing to the section below about what's not currently covered?

Author: How about linking to future-directions.md?

Reviewer 2: We already link there in the next paragraph. Can we combine these two paragraphs and just link to it once indicating the multiple ways that future directions might go (increasing breadth and strength)?

Reviewer: Sure, works for me.

Author: I added "such as how source code is managed" and didn't add a second link. I think I'd like to keep the paragraphs separate. To a new reader the ideas of tracks and levels could be confusing and I think breaking the ideas apart into two paragraphs can help reduce that  potential for confusion. Is that okay with you two?

Reviewer: Works for me. Thanks.

Within each track, ascending levels indicate increasingly hardened security
practices. Higher levels provide better guarantees against supply-chain threats,
but come at higher implementation costs. Lower SLSA levels are designed to be
easier to adopt, but with only modest security guarantees. SLSA 0 is sometimes
used to refer to software that doesn't yet meet any SLSA level. Currently, the
SLSA Build Track encompasses Levels 1 through 3, but we envision higher levels
to be possible in [future revisions](future-directions.md).   

The combination of tracks and levels offers an easy way to discuss whether
software meets a specific set of requirements. By referring to an artifact as
meeting SLSA Build Level 3, for example, you're indicating in one phrase that
the software artifact was built following a defined set of multiple security

> practices that qualify it for that level. 

Author: Thanks for pointing this out -- I've tweaked the idea further to be more specific.

---

> description: An introduction to SLSA

Reviewer 2: We have a lot of good information in this page. We can be more verbose about this description. It is okay to have multiple sentences here, either as a long line or (I assume) [multi-line](https://yaml-multiline.info/) yaml.

Author: Sure, is there anything you'd like to add specifically?

Reviewer 2: Maybe a brief statement about why it is needed (i.e. supply chain attacks are on the rise) and what it provides (i.e. common vocabulary/process and prescriptive incremental guidance)? You can even finish with a sentence commenting that SLSA is for everyone.

I initially thought that the layperson description would be better, but after further reflection, I think we should stay away from that for this description.

Reviewer 2: @olivekl, this is the last comment that I have. If this will be addressed elsewhere (or another time), then it it is all good from me.

Author: Whoops, this comment got lost in the fold. Updated!

description: An introduction to SLSA
prev_page:

>   title: What's new in SLSA v1.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  url: whats-new
next_page:

>   title: Supply chain threats

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---

# About SLSA

This page is an introduction to SLSA and its concepts. If you're new
to SLSA, start here!

## What is SLSA?

SLSA is a set of incrementally adoptable guidelines for supply-chain security,
established by industry consensus. The specification set by SLSA is useful for
both software producers and consumers: producers can follow SLSA's guidelines to
make their software supply chain more secure, and consumers can use SLSA to make
decisions about whether to trust a software package. 

SLSA offers:

-   A common vocabulary to talk about software supply-chain security

> -   A way to judge the software you consume and secure your incoming supply chain

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-   A way to secure your software supply chain by evaluating trust in the software artifacts you consume
```

Since SLSA is really only concerned with whether the _artifact_ can be trusted, not with the software _within_ the artifact.

Reviewer: Sorry but this doesn't sound quite right to me. One doesn't really evaluate trust, do they? I think it's more like you do some evaluation to determine whether (or how much) you can trust.
So in this case I would rather say something like:
```suggestion
-   A way to secure your software supply chain by evaluating whether you can trust the software artifacts you consume
```
Or closer to the original text:
```suggestion
-   A way to judge the trustworthiness of the artifacts you consume to secure your incoming supply chain
```

Reviewer: Yes, I like that.

-   A way to measure your efforts toward compliance with forthcoming

>     Executive Order standards in the [Secure Software Development Framework (SSDF)](https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/ssdf).

Reviewer 4: nit: remove period at end for consistency

```suggestion
    Executive Order standards in the [Secure Software Development Framework (SSDF)](https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/ssdf)
```

    Executive Order standards in the [Secure Software Development Framework (SSDF)](https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/ssdf).

## Why SLSA is needed

High profile attacks like those against [SolarWinds](https://www.crowdstrike.com/blog/sunspot-malware-technical-analysis/) or [Codecov](https://about.codecov.io/apr-2021-post-mortem/) have exposed the kind of supply
chain integrity weaknesses that may go unnoticed, yet quickly become very
public, disruptive, and costly in today's environment when exploited. They've
also shown that there are inherent risks not just in code itself, but at
multiple points in the complex process of getting that code into software
systems—that is, in the **software supply chain**. Since these attacks are on
the rise and show no sign of decreasing, a universal framework for hardening the

> software supply chain is needed, as evidenced by the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
software supply chain is needed, as proposed by the
```
The evidence is the attacks themselves, not the EO.

Author: Ah, true. I'm not sure it's fair to say that the EO proposed the need for a universal framework for supply chain security, though (or at least not in those exact words). I think I meant it more like, "as borne out by the EO." As in, the EO supports the validity of stating there's a need. Would that phrase work?

Reviewer 3: Makes sense to me!

Author: Updated to "affirmed by" for a warmer tone

[U.S. Executive Order on Improving the Nation's Cybersecurity](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/12/executive-order-on-improving-the-nations-cybersecurity/).

Security techniques for vulnerability detection and analysis of source code are
essential, but are not enough on their own. Even after fuzzing or vulnerability
scanning is completed, changes to code can happen, whether unintentionally or

> from a compromised or malicious insider. Risk for code modification exists at

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
via compromise or malicious acts. Risk for code modification exists at
```

b/c "compromised insider" doesn't quite make sense.

Reviewer 3: That makes sense, but I think that would be "insider compromise" rather than "compromised insider", right?

Reviewer 2: I feel like these are usually just classified as "insider threats"

Reviewer 4: Right, I wanted to highlight insider threats, but also call out compromise of an insider's credentials. (Not sure how best to fix the paragraph though.)

Reviewer 2: One option could be to just expand it further to get away from attempted parallel construction

> insider threats or compromised accounts/credentials/individuals/whatever word you want

Reviewer 3: Makes sense, how about:

```suggestion
via insider threats or compromise. Risk for code modification exists at
```

Reviewer 4: Yup, either "compromised accounts" or "compromise" works for me. I'd lean toward the former but defer to @olivekl.

Author: Updated with @di's suggestion and "compromised accounts" to be clear about what could be compromised.

## Who is SLSA for?

In short: everyone involved in producing and consuming software, or providing
infrastructure for software.

**Software producers**, such as a development team or open
source maintainers. SLSA gives you protection against insider risk and tampering
along the supply chain to your consumers, increasing confidence that the
software you produce reaches your consumers as you intended.

**Software consumers**, such as a development team using open source packages, a
government agency using vendored software, or a CISO judging organizational
risk. SLSA gives you a way to judge the security practices of the software you
rely on and be sure that what you receive is what you expected.

**Infrastructure providers**, who provide infrastructure such as an ecosystem
package manager, build platform, or CI/CD system. As the bridge between the
producers and consumers, your adoption of SLSA enables a secure software supply
chain between them.

## How SLSA works

We talk about SLSA in terms of [tracks and levels](levels.md).
A SLSA track focuses on a particular aspect of a supply chain, such as the Build

> Track. SLSA v1.0 consists of only a single track [(Build)](levels.md#build-track), but future versions of

Reviewer 4: nit: parentheses outside the link looks nicer

```suggestion
Track. SLSA v1.0 consists of only a single track ([Build](levels.md#build-track)), but future versions of
```

Track. SLSA v1.0 consists of only a single track (Build), but future versions of
SLSA will add tracks that cover other parts of the software supply chain.

Within each track, ascending levels indicate increasingly hardened security
practices. Higher levels provide better guarantees against supply-chain threats,
but come at higher implementation costs. Lower SLSA levels are designed to be
easier to adopt, but with only modest security guarantees. SLSA 0 is sometimes
used to refer to software that doesn't yet meet any SLSA level. Currently, the
SLSA Build Track encompasses Levels 1 through 3, but we envision higher levels
to be possible in [future revisions](future-directions.md).   

The combination of tracks and levels offers an easy way to discuss whether
software meets a specific set of requirements. By referring to an artifact as
meeting SLSA Build Level 3, for example, you're indicating in one phrase that
the software artifact was built following a set of security practices that 
industry leaders agree protect against particular supply chain compromises. 

## What SLSA doesn't cover

> There are several areas outside SLSA's current framework:

Reviewer 2: Do we foresee any of these to be addressed in future directions as well?

Reviewer: Obviously we can't commit to anything but at least some of this yes, for instance with the source track which was tabled off for now.

Reviewer 2: All of these items seem to be clearly outside of the scope of SLSA, but we can include a comment that the breadth of the specification may increase with future versions.

> There are several areas outside SLSA's current framework:

Author: Good point! I added a couple sentences along those lines.

> There are several areas outside SLSA's current framework:

Reviewer 2: Looks good. I cannot resolve the conversation though.

> important to consider together with SLSA:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
important to consider together with SLSA such as:
```
We do not want to imply that this is an exhaustive list.

-   Code quality: SLSA does not tell you whether the developers writing the
    source code followed secure coding practices.
-   Developer trust: SLSA cannot tell you whether a developer is
    intentionally writing malicious code. If you trust a developer to write
    code you want to consume, though, SLSA can guarantee that the code will
    reach you without another party tampering with it.
-   Transitive trust for dependencies: the SLSA level of an artifact is
    independent of the level of its dependencies. You can use SLSA recursively to 
    also judge an artifact's dependencies on their own, but there is 
    currently no single SLSA level that applies to both an artifact and its 
    transitive dependencies together. For a more detailed explanation of why, 

>     see the [FAQ](faq).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    see the [FAQ](faq#q-why-is-slsa-not-transitive).
```

---
description: An introduction to SLSA
prev_page:
  title: What's new in SLSA v1.0
  url: whats-new
next_page:
  title: Supply-chain threats
  url: threats-overview
---

# About SLSA

This page is an introduction to SLSA and its concepts. If you're new
to SLSA, start here!

## What is SLSA?

> SLSA is a set of incrementally adoptable guidelines for supply-chain security,

Author: In this case I was following the rule of not hyphenating when used as a noun and hyphenating when used as an adjectival phrase. It tends to look inconsistent, though, so the general trend these days is moving toward dropping the adjectival hyphen (as has happened almost universally with the phrase "open source software"). I'm okay with dropping the hyphen across the site for adjectival phrases.

> SLSA is a set of incrementally adoptable guidelines for supply-chain security,

Reviewer 5: Thanks for explaining the grammar rule. I admit, I am not familiar with it. I would be in favour of dropping the adjectival hyphen across the site.

> SLSA is a set of incrementally adoptable guidelines for supply-chain security,

Author: Sounds good, I'm in agreement (this is a grammar rule in the process of dying out). 

I'll update this PR and then get to the remaining hyphens across other pages with the next PR.

also shown that there are inherent risks not just in code itself, but at
multiple points in the complex process of getting that code into software
systems—that is, in the **software supply chain**. Since these attacks are on
the rise and show no sign of decreasing, a universal framework for hardening the
software supply chain is needed, as evidenced by the
[U.S. Executive Order on Improving the Nation's Cybersecurity](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/12/executive-order-on-improving-the-nations-cybersecurity/).

Security techniques for vulnerability detection and analysis of source code are
essential, but are not enough on their own. Even after fuzzing or vulnerability
scanning is completed, changes to code can happen, whether unintentionally or
from a compromised or malicious insider. Risk for code modification exists at
each link in a typical software supply chain, from source to build through
packaging and distribution. Any weaknesses in the supply chain undermine
confidence in whether the code that you run is actually the code that you
scanned. 

This need to track code handling from source to binary puts an extra burden on

> anyone involved in complex critical systems. SLSA is meant to support automation

Author: Tweaked -- does this paragraph still work without it?

> anyone involved in complex critical systems. SLSA is meant to support automation

Reviewer 5: Thanks! It has lost a bit in the tweaking. Can we reintroduce the explicit mention of the automation protecting against tampering? Perhaps:

> SLSA is designed to support automation that tracks code handling from source to binary, so that regardless of the complexity of a software supply chain it is protected against tampering.

> anyone involved in complex critical systems. SLSA is meant to support automation

Author: Updated!

> anyone involved in complex critical systems. SLSA is meant to support automation

Reviewer 5: Thanks!

so even the largest and most complex systems can protect against tampering. As a
result, SLSA increases trust that the analysis and review performed on source
code can be assumed to still apply to the binary consumed at the end of a
complex software supply chain. 

> ## SLSA in layman's terms

Author: Good catch, thanks.

software—a "software bill of materials" (SBOM) that tells users what is in their
software. Building off this analogy, SLSA can be thought of as all the food
safety handling guidelines that make an ingredient list credible. From standards
for clean factory environments so contaminants aren't introduced in packaging
plants, to the requirement for tamper-proof seals on lids that ensure nobody
changes the contents of items sitting on grocery store shelves, the entire food
safety framework ensures that consumers can trust that the ingredient list
matches what's actually in the package they buy.

Likewise, the SLSA framework provides this trust with guidelines and
tamper-resistant evidence for securing each step of the software production
process. That means you know not only that nothing unexpected was added to the
software product, but also that the ingredient label itself wasn't tampered with
and accurately reflects the software contents. In this way, SLSA helps protect
against the risk of:

-   Code modification (by adding a tamper-evident "seal" to code after
    source control)

> -   Uploaded artifacts that were not built by a CI/CD system (by marking

Author: Done

    artifacts with a factory "stamp" that verifies which build service created it)
-   Threats against the build system (by providing "manufacturing facility"
    best practices for build system services)

For more exploration of this analogy, see the blog post
[SLSA + SBOM: Accelerating SBOM success with the help of SLSA](https://slsa.dev/blog/2022/05/slsa-sbom).

## Who is SLSA for?

> In short: everyone involved in producing, consuming software, or providing 

Author: Oops, thanks for catching.

infrastructure for software.

> **Software producers**, such as a development team at a software company or open

Author: Dropped

source maintainers. SLSA gives you protection against insider risk and tampering
along the supply chain to your consumers, increasing confidence that the
software you produce reaches your consumers as you intended it.

**Software consumers**, such as a development team using open source packages, a
government agency using vendored software, or a CISO judging organizational
risk. SLSA gives you a way to judge the security practices of the software you
rely on and be sure that what you receive is what you expected.

**Infrastructure providers**, who provide infrastructure such as an ecosystem
package manager, build platform, or CI/CD system. As the bridge between the
producers and consumers, your adoption of SLSA makes a secure software supply
chain more frictionless for both of them. 

## How SLSA works

We talk about SLSA in terms of [tracks and levels](levels.md).
A SLSA track focuses on a particular aspect of a supply chain, such as the Build

> Track. SLSA v1.0 consists of only a single track (Build), but future versions of

Reviewer 5: worth linking to the build track here?

Author: Added

SLSA will add tracks that cover other parts of the software supply chain.

Within each track, ascending levels indicate increasingly hardened security
practices. Higher levels provide better guarantees against supply-chain threats,
but come at higher implementation costs. Lower SLSA levels are designed to be
easier to adopt, but with only modest security guarantees. SLSA 0 is sometimes
used to refer to software that doesn't yet meet any SLSA level. Currently, the
SLSA Build Track encompasses Levels 1 through 3, but we envision higher levels

> to be possible in future revisions.   

Reviewer 5: worth linking to future directions here?

Author: Done!
